Welcome back.
We have our flask application that saves user contact information to a CSP file and this is all great.
It's working really really nicely right.
We have a beautiful Web site.
We even have contact forms but there's a problem here.
You see we're running the browser as well as the server on the same computer but this isn't a real life
because if I give this a U.R.L. to a friend they're not going to be able to see it because this address
points to local host saying local host like this it's the same thing by local host simply means your
computer.
So it's not like anybody else but us can access our app.
That's not very fun is it.
Ideally we can create this app so we can send it to all our friends our family members and possibly
future employers.
So how can we do this in this video.
I'm going to show you a really fun easy way to deploy your application or your Web site online.
We're going to use something called Python anywhere.
And Python anywhere is going to allow us to host our files.
That is all the files that we have here onto a server that they give us for free.
So this is completely free.
All you have to do is simply log in and you can click on sign up.
You can see that they have a different pricing plans.
So you can actually paid for their service but for a beginner plan where you can create one web application
we can do that for free.
So let's create a beginner account and create your username and password agree to the terms.
Sure.
I've read everything somebody else took my user name.
How dare they.
Let's go with Andre and so again create your own account.
And there we go.
We have our dashboard now the way Python anywhere it works is that we need to load up the files on a
machine.
Kind of like how we have our files over here on our computer.
We need to somehow upload them to Python anywhere as computers.
Now the way we can do that is using getup so I'm going to open up my github account.
I'm going to click on new repositories and I'm going to create my project here.
So let's just call it portfolio because it sounds kind of cool and all the trendy names are short like
this.
So this is my portfolio project.
I'm going to keep it public and then initialize with every me and then create repository now.
From here I'm going to clone this repository.
If you have SS H set up you can copy the SSA or otherwise use H2 G.P.S. which might ask you for your
GitHub password when you clone
so all I have to do now is to open up a new terminal.
Let's make this a little bit bigger
and say Get clone and then copy and paste the Euro so that a clones are project now from here.
If I open this we have our web server and then our portfolio which is our github account so we can just
copy the files here.
Now the ones that we actually need is we need the database CSC because these are going to be the files
that we want to upload to Python anyway.
So for now let's just select the CSP file the server dubbed Pi the static folder the templates folder
because those are all the files that run our flash cap.
Now if I copy and paste this in here you might be asking yourself what about what about the other files.
Well there's a neat trick here because these files over here were created because of our virtual environment
right.
We have things like flask installed.
We have libraries like Python three point seven.
We have our PI cache folder.
Essentially these folders created the virtual environment for us.
However there's an interesting trick here that we can do we can run a command called Pip freeze and
remember you might have to do Pip 3 based on what type of installation you have of Python on your machine
but if you do Pip freeze with this little arrow and then requirements dog text.
Notice what happens as that requirements are text gets added to my project.
What's this.
Do you see that I get it requirements dot text and this requirements dot text.
If we click on it we see here that we have the requirements for our hop to work and the cool thing about
this is that the flask and then the ginger for our templating which we actually include in our libraries
here can now be used with their requirement thought text to not necessarily upload them to get hub but
instead use this file as a way for us to install on any future machines any of these dependencies.
I'll show you what I mean.
For example what we could do is upload all of these files to Python anywhere right.
But that's a lot of files and a lot of work.
Instead we only upload the critical files that we wrote plus the requirements dot text and automatically
Python anywhere is going to be able to install a flask and the ginger and all the other requirements
by looking at their requirements dot text.
So for now let's go back to our desktop and copy the requirements dot text as well into our portfolio
page so we now have all the files that we need.
Forget how far we go back.
We can simply go into our portfolio folder and then simply say get add everything.
Then get commit and give it some sort of a message.
My port folio Web site.
There we go.
And then finally get push origin master
and just like that if I go back to get hub and I refresh
I have all my files for my portfolio project so using GitHub we can now upload really really easily
to our Python anywhere dashboard.
The way we're going to do this is to actually now clone this repo with all these files and we'll use
a G.P.S..
That's copy this and then go to our dashboard now in here in the console.
We can hit bash so this will open up the terminal where our computer that is hosted by Python anywhere
exists.
Let's make this a little bit bigger in here.
I can say get clone and clone this repo.
There we go.
And now if we do less and remember this is a Linux machine so Linux commands like LSD is going to work.
So we see that we have the Rema text and that portfolio.
So let's go into portfolio and we see here that we have look at that all our files on our machine.
Now the cool thing is that if I go back to the dashboard and I go into my files you see here that in
the directories I have a portfolio project which is my files that we've created.
How cool is that.
So I now have all the files necessary for me to run the app.
But how can we run an app.
Well we have a web app tab so remember with the free tier we get access to one free web app so let's
open up the webcam and add a new Web site.
So unfortunately with the free tier you can have custom domain names.
That is a way for you to say.
Andre Nagoya.
Dot com or whatever Web sites you want.
Instead they're going to generate one for you but that's something that you can look into on your own
if you want to pay for it.
But for now let's just use the free tier so we can select the python framework that we want to use and
I'm actually going to do manual configuration we can pick whatever python version we want.
Let's do three point six for now because that's what we've been using.
And then finally click next.
There we go.
We have our Python project at this.
Your real address but if I click on this all right I get a hello world.
It's working but this isn't our portfolio.
So how can we make that work there's a few things that we need to setup.
First I'm going to link you to this tutorial on showing you how to set it up in case you have any problems.
But let's go step by step first what we need to do is scroll down and enter the source code.
So that is whereas the code that we're looking for if you remember let's go over here to files.
We have our portfolio folder.
So what we want to do in the web is to say that we want port so in here it's going to automatically
create that link for us.
So that's where our source code our server code exists.
Now if we go back here we've gone in our code onto Python anywhere and then we have to set up our virtual
environment.
So we have to open up our console.
Let's make this a little bit bigger.
And then just run these comments.
So in our case because we're using Python three point six we're just going to copy this go to our dashboard
into the Bash once again.
So that is the computer that we're going to serve our files from and then copy and paste to create a
virtual environment called my virtual end.
And while that's installing our next task is to install flask so once again we'll copy this so let's
run pip install flask
and you'll notice here as flask is being installed that we're now in a virtual environment.
See here how says my virtual app which was what we told it to name our virtual environment and then
the next step is to run this command.
Well actually this command won't do anything because this command work on simply takes us to our virtual
environment which we already have created.
This is for next time whenever you let's say go back and open up the console to make sure that you're
always working in our virtual environment.
Now in here if I look at the files I have my portfolio project but I can also run using the requirements
dot text that we have in case we have a lot of dependencies.
We can actually run this command so that it reads our requirements dot text to install any dependencies
couldn't open up the file because we have to see into our portfolio first and then run this command
in our case we don't have that many requirements and everything is set since we installed flask.
But this is how we can use the requirements of text to install all our dependencies.
Awesome so going back to the tutorial we see that we've set up our virtual environment and we need to
go to our Web tap to set up our virtual environments so that it knows where the Web tab to look for
this environment.
So going back we can now go to our Web and I know this is confusing this is what happens when you do
configuration on a Web site.
It's one of those things that you just have to learn or follow documentation in here in their virtual
and.
We will simply as they ask add the name of our virtual environment which is my virtual And
so again we'll copy this and automatically it gives us the link now finally if we reload our application
I'll take a few seconds but when it's done and I click I get the hello world.
Something is still not right because we want to our server to be running right.
So it serves us the index dot HMO.
This video is getting long so let's take a break and see you in the next video.